My experienced and what I’d learned on Troubleshooting was good. Studying the history and the common troubles of the computer and it parts. The group individual reporting was great. Free handouts for everyone. Great quizzes for improving our reasoning. A subject that can connects to real life communication, I don’t know why but maybe due to some language learning. Hardware communicates the Software or OS by the machine language and vice versa, just like people in the world communicate to each other by the language that they mutually understand. What? Seriously? Maybe it seems so complicated but I’ll gonna detail that later anyway hehe.
Anyway, what is troubleshooting? It is a compound word from trouble and shooting. Trouble means problems or conflicts while shooting means hitting someone or something. So it means hitting someone or something by using problems as bullets. Insert facepalm meme. Nope, that is not what it meant to be. It means we hit the problem in order to fix it like throwing your cellphone due to firmware problem so that you can buy a new one or maybe your laptop that can’t run a programming code because you think the problem was the laptop can’t compile your code and it always report you error at line 143 while the real problem is the missing semicolon but you didn’t care at all. Double facepalm. So this is it no more fooling around, troubleshooting is an act of solving serious problems, a systematic approach like an algorithm to solve a specific problem. Maybe in mathematical, electronics, machines, in programs that always shows error (just called it debug) or maybe in your life that you need to troubleshoot.
We got a lot to troubleshoot right? So as an essentialist, we just need to focus one field of troubleshooting. If you think it will be about how to fix your relationship or how can she\he like you, you’re in a wrong man. In my COR, the subject description is Troubleshooting of Computer System, we gonna troublshoot some computer related problems, YEAH! 
But before we troubleshoot, we need some knowledge about it. Knowledge is power. In order to troubleshoot, we need to identify the problems or the symptoms of the system that we gonna troubleshoot. We also need  to use our five senses, we don’t tastes that computer parts unless we’re hungry but we need to taste and eat the information that we gonna learn on how to troubleshoot  and feel it deeply like disgestion. There are too many stuff to be list so I just gonna list some parts of the computer and it’s common problem and how to troubleshoot. By the way, I just gonna copy paste what I read on the handouts that they given to us, life is so easy when everything is free. This gonna be another how to troubleshoot a computer for dummies version blah blah. Insert fsjal meme.
Your computer has a problem when it don’t boot especially when you didn’t insert it on the power source. But what if you insert the plug to the power source but still it won’t boot up? Seriously, it will not really turn on unless you press the power on or the power on switch of the system unit was broken and it will automatically turn on when it receives the correct voltage source. But it still doesn’t boot up.  Check the power supply or the Automatic Voltage Regulator, maybe the fuse was blown or the socket was broken. Then the power supply was fine, but why it was still doesn’t boot up? Maybe it’s time to watch some youtube videos tutorials or ask your bestfriend google for help. Nah… It’s time to check up the system unit. Look at the beautiful city called  motherboard and its beautiful big buildings called bridges and little buildings and highways. Check out the coliseum, I mean that’s the CPU fan, if it was connected to the voltage source then it’s fine. Check those billboards, it is the Random Access Memory,  check if it is fit in. And check the other billboards, those expansion packs. Why it is not still working if all of the connections and components on the motherboard was fine and connected. I forgot that I turned off the circuit breaker. Circuit breaker is on, then it’s time to press the turn on button. Did you notice that it is still blackscreen? The wire from the VGA port of the system unit  is not connected to the monitor, connect it to see what happens. Hey, why it just blankscreen? Turn off the computer again and remove first the plug from the source. Go back to the system unit and remove the RAM, clean the pins of the RAM by the eraserhead and put it to the other side then insert the plug again to the source. Turn on again and see what happens. It boots up now, cool mom!
That’s how to use a computer with few troubleshooting tips.  Another tip is we need to clean regularly our system units to avoid seeing bugs, literal bugs not software bugs. We need to apply the Cleanliness is a virtue. It is a good habit to clean the computer system once a month just like what you did on your room, cleaning it one a month. Insert philosoraptor.

By the way, our instructor in this subject was great. He shares the connection  of the people communication to hardware/ software communication (what a good illustration) and how we need to value who we are and what our past was especially our machine language, baybayin, the ancient script of the Philippines. He has a lot of ideas that can open someone’s mind, mindblown, on how we should adopt something and never forget who we are. He encourage us to what movies / anime without subtitle, I’m just talking it too much, I mean learning language is fun. Talking about baybayin was like travelling back to the past to understand the ancient customs and traditions. I really like his exams because I don’t need to study, I’m just so lazy though. His exam was more about self-explanatory and the understanding of the problem. If he gonna rate me about his teaching skills from 1 to 10, I will not rate him. According to Simon Sinek, numbers can’t describe the respect and appreciation of someone. 

